# Introduction

The proof of work algorithm used is called [Cukoo Cycle](https://github.com/tromp/cuckoo), a graph theory-based algorithm that requires far less energy than most other GPU, CPU or ASIC-bound PoW algorithms. The goal is to lower the mining requirements to lay the foundation for future scalability in AI computing demand market.

The difficulty dynamically adjusts so that on average one block is produced by the entire network every 5 seconds (ie., 5s block time). this rate ensures the synchronization of system state and prevents double spending or alters history unless the attacker possesses more than 51% of the network mining power.

## Mining Rewards

Any node participating in the network can be a miner. The successful miner of the winning block receives:

- A static block reward for the 'winning' block, consisting of exactly 2.5 CTXC
- All of the endorphines attach to the transactions set by the senders, that are executed within the winning block.
-  expended within the block, that is, all the gas consumed by the execution of all the transactions in the block submitted by the winning miner is compensated for by the senders. The gascost incurred is credited to the miner's account as part of the consensus protocol. Over time, it's expected these will dwarf the static block reward.

## The Algorithm

Cuckoo Cycle tries to find a fixed length L ring in the Cuckoo Cycle bipartite graph randomly generated by Siphash. As the scale of the graph increases, the L value increases and becomes more difficult to find a ring that fits the length of L. Solving the solution (i.e., the process of finding a loop) itself requires a relatively large amount of memory to store the sorting of data. The Cuckoo Cycle algorithm is *resisted* to ASIC chips. The difficulty and cost to make Cuckoo Cycle compatible on ASIC are much higher than the SHA256 of Bitcoin.

Cuckoo Cycle focuses more on memory use, meaning the solution time is bound to memory bandwidth rather than the raw processor or GPU speed. Unlike other PoW algorithms that requires maxing out the capacity of your hardware that drains a lot of power which produces heat, a memory-bound algorithm like Cuckoo cycle require far less energy than most other GPU, CPU or ASIC-bound PoW algorithms.

## Requirements

Please refer to full node requirements.

## Installation
### UBUNTU

download Cortex Pool Miner

```bash
git clone git@github.com:CortexFoundation/PoolMiner.git
cd PoolMiner && make clean
```

### Dependency Version Check
Ensure we have the correct version of gcc and  go

gcc/g++ 5.4 or later is required.

Use g++ --version or gcc --version to check which version you have.

On Ubuntu, if your version is too old then you can install gcc/g++ 5.4 as follows:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install g++-5.4
```

go 1.10 or later is required

Use go --version to check which version you have.

Install Go 1.10 as follows:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install go-1.10
```

## Miner

MinerPool Website ：https://pool.cortexlabs.ai/

MinerPool Uri：miner-cn.cortexlabs.ai:8009  or   miner.cortexlabs.ai:8009

### Options

#### --account

Set miner account

#### --pool_uri [Necessary]

Set the miner pool URI for submitting solutions.

#### --deviceids [id1,id2,id3]

Set which GPU device use for mining, param is device ids concatenated by commas.

#### --verbosity

Set the verbosity of log printing.

### Running Bash

```Bash
./bin/miner --pool_uri miner-cn.cortexlabs.ai:8009 --verbosity 5 --deviceids 0
./bin/miner --account "0xe291d43ad2eb6ea04e9f5e1a0c67f970702f8bd6" --pool_uri miner-cn.cortexlabs.ai:8009 --verbosity 5 --deviceids 0,1,2,3
​```x
```