# Introduction

The proof of work algorithm used is called [Cukoo Cycle](https://github.com/tromp/cuckoo), a graph theory-based algorithm that is far less energy-intensive than most other CPU, GPU or ASIC-bound PoW algorithms. The goal is to lower mining requirements, ensuring true decentralization and laying the foundation for future scalability.

Cuckoo Cycle is designed to be ASIC-resistant and optimal for GPU-based transactions processing. PoW is used to facilitate a decentralized ecosystem where no single entity controls the network. Just as in a typical PoW project, miners provide the computing power to support the Cortex network and in return are rewarded with transaction fees, which incidentally is Cortex’s way to issue more CTXCs, the native Cortex asset. 

The difficulty adjusts dynamically so that on average, a block is produced every 15 seconds, i.e., 15s block time. This rate ensures the synchronization of the system state while preventing double-spend and history alteration unless an attacker possesses more than 51% of the network's mining power.

## Mining Rewards

Any node participating in the network can be a miner. The successful miner of the winning block receives:

- A static block reward for the 'winning' block, consisting of exactly 7.5 CTXC
- All of the endorphines attach to the transactions set by the senders, that are executed within the winning block.
-  All endorphins consumed by the execution of all the transactions in the block submitted by the winning miner is compensated for by the senders.

## The Algorithm

Cuckoo Cycle tries to find a fixed length L ring in the Cuckoo Cycle bipartite graph randomly generated by Siphash. As the scale of the graph increases, the L value increases and becomes more difficult to find a ring that fits the length of L. Solving the solution (i.e., the process of finding a loop) itself requires a relatively large amount of memory to store the sorting of data. The Cuckoo Cycle algorithm is *resisted* to ASIC chips. The difficulty and cost to make Cuckoo Cycle compatible on ASIC are much higher than the SHA256 of Bitcoin.

Cuckoo Cycle focuses more on memory use, meaning the solution time is bound to memory bandwidth rather than the raw processor or GPU speed. Unlike other PoW algorithms that requires maxing out the capacity of your hardware that drains a lot of power which produces heat, a memory-bound algorithm like Cuckoo cycle require far less energy than most other GPU, CPU or ASIC-bound PoW algorithms.

## Requirements

Please refer to full node requirements.

## Installation
### UBUNTU

download Cortex Pool Miner

```bash
git clone git@github.com:CortexFoundation/PoolMiner.git
cd PoolMiner && make clean
```

### Dependency Version Check
Ensure we have the correct version of gcc and  go

gcc/g++ 5.4 or later is required.

Use g++ --version or gcc --version to check which version you have.

On Ubuntu, if your version is too old then you can install gcc/g++ 5.4 as follows:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install g++-5.4
```

go 1.10 or later is required

Use go --version to check which version you have.

Install Go 1.10 as follows:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install go-1.10
```

## Start Mining

MinerPool Website ：https://pool.cortexlabs.ai/

MinerPool Uri：miner-cn.cortexlabs.ai:8009  or   miner.cortexlabs.ai:8009

### Options

#### --account

Set miner account

#### --pool_uri [Necessary]

Set the miner pool URI for submitting solutions.

#### --deviceids [id1,id2,id3]

Set which GPU device use for mining, param is device ids concatenated by commas.

#### --verbosity

Set the verbosity of log printing.

### Running Bash

```Bash
./bin/miner --pool_uri miner-cn.cortexlabs.ai:8009 --verbosity 5 --deviceids 0
./bin/miner --account "0xe291d43ad2eb6ea04e9f5e1a0c67f970702f8bd6" --pool_uri miner-cn.cortexlabs.ai:8009 --verbosity 5 --deviceids 0,1,2,3
​```x
```